---
title: "intro"
bg: blue
color: white
fa-icon: book
---

### So what is internationalization?

Internationalization, or i18n for short, is the process of preparing a project to support multiple languages and/or markets.  Most web and mobile frameworks (i.e. Rails, Django, iOS, Android, etc) have a mechanism for providing translations for a project's text. In the Rails world for example, you'll find a file containing English key/value pairs in `config/locales/en.yml`. These key/value pairs represent static string keys and dynamic English values. Although the values might change (maybe you want to explain something more clearly on your site), the keys rarely do. If you'd like to make your site available in Spanish, you'd create a similar file at `config/locales/es.yml`. This file contains the same keys as `en.yml`, but values written in Spanish instead of English.

en.yml:

{% highlight yaml linenos=table %}
hello_intro: Hello, world!
{% endhighlight %}

es.yml

{% highlight yaml linenos=table %}
hello_intro: ¡Hola, mundo!
{% endhighlight %}

### How Can Rosette Help?

Rosette automates the process of translating your project's content. It's capable of extracting strings from a number of file formats (including source code), which it then stores in the configured data store. Once phrases have been extracted, it's time for translation. Rosette doesn't handle translation by itself - that part is up to you. There are a number of 3rd-party translation companies out there, like [Transifex](https://www.transifex.com/). You'll need to consider using their services or translate the phrases yourself. Check to see if an adapter (or 'integration' in Rosette parlance) already exists for your service provider by looking at the list of projects in the [rosette-proj Github organization](https://github.com/rosette-proj). Although Rosette doesn't provide mechanisms for translating text, it does store translations in its data store and associates them with their phrase counterparts. Once translations have been received, Rosette can export (or 'serialize') the phrase/translation pairs to a file you can use in your apps.

### How is Rosette Different?

There are a few internationalization platforms out there, but Rosette sets itself apart because of its deep integration with the source control system [Git](http://git-scm.com/). In fact, Rosette requires that your source code be managed by git. If it isn't, Rosette won't work for you.

Git encourages small incremental changes, which are made in units known as "commits". Each commit has its own unique identifier, called a commit id (often referred to as a SHA). When Rosette extracts phrases, it does so at the commit level. That is to say, new or changed phrases are tagged with the commit id they came from. This means that you can retrieve a list of the phrases and translations at any point in the history of your repository. As a cool side effect, this also means you can differentiate easily between the phrases and translations that pertain to different features, i.e. features in different git branches.

### Life of a Phrase

* Engineers make changes to source code and add new phrases.
* Engineers commit changes to git (`git commit`).
* Engineers commit changes to Rosette (`git rosette commit`). _note_: this can be automated.
* Phrases get translated and stored.
* Translations get exported from Rosette.
