---
title: "components"
bg: purple
color: white
fa-icon: cubes
---

### Projects

Rosette is not one large project, but rather a number of smaller projects that can be configured to work together. Each of the individual projects is distributed as a Ruby gem. There are several top-level projects ([rosette-core](https://github.com/rosette-proj/rosette-core) and [rosette-server](https://github.com/rosette-proj/rosette-server)) as well as a number of smaller components. Here's what the top-level projects do:

* **rosette-core:** Core Rosette classes. All the brains.
* **rosette-server:** An API layer you can use (via [rosette-client](https://github.com/rosette-proj/rosette-client)) to ask Rosette questions about itself, process new commits, submit and export translations, etc.

### Components

Components are divided up into five categories:

* **Extractors:** Responsible for reading and parsing files that contain translatable phrases.
* **Data Stores:** Store and retrieve phrases and translations as well as other metadata.
* **Serializers:** Responsible for writing phrases and translations to files.
* **Pre-Processors:** Transform translations immediately before they get serialized. Can be used for text normalization, etc.
* **Integrations:** Plugins that hook into Rosette to provide access to 3rd-party functionality or resources.

All of Rosette's official projects and components can be found on Github under the [rosette-proj organization](https://github.com/rosette-proj).

### Usage

Generally speaking, you won't use any of the components directly. Instead, you'll use them via Rosette's `#build_config` method. For example, this is how you'd add a repository with an extractor:

{% highlight ruby linenos=table %}
require 'rosette/core'
require 'rosette/extractors/yaml-extractor'

config = Rosette.build_config do |config|
  config.add_repo('my_awesome_repo') do |repo_config|
    repo_config.set_path('/path/to/workspace/my_awesome_repo/.git')
    repo_config.set_description('A bowl of awesomeness')

    repo_config.add_extractor('yaml/rails') do |ext_config|
      ext_config.set_conditions do |cond|
        cond.match_path('config/locales/en.yml')
      end
    end
  end
end
{% endhighlight %}

You can use this config to stand up an instance of rosette-server, although we haven't configured it to use a datastore yet. Most of rosette-server's functionality won't work without a datastore, so don't push this to production just yet:

{% highlight ruby linenos=table %}
require 'puma' # or whatever webserver you want
require 'logger'
require 'rosette/server'

Rosette.logger = Logger.new(STDOUT)
Rosette::Server::V1.set_configuration(config)

run Rosette::Server::V1
{% endhighlight %}

Since rosette-server is a rack application, save all this code in a file called config.ru and run `rackup` to start the server. If you're not familiar with Ruby or Rails and/or don't know what a "rack application" is, you can get up to speed quickly by copying the [rosette-server-template](https://github.com/rosette-proj/rosette-server-template) and following the instructions.
